at Columbia University in New York
students occupying Hamilton Hall have
barricaded themselves inside the
building this is after the University's
management said it had begun suspending
students refusing to meet a deadline to
abandon their
encampment well let's bring in our
correspondent tedes Sao who's joining us
live from Columbia University in New
York and people continuing to protest
there today are despite the university
suspending students for doing so
well that's correct we're right outside
Columbia University right in front of
Hilton Hall this is the building that
was occupied by a group of students that
barricaded themselves on Monday night
they displayed a flag saying that
they're renaming the building after hind
rajab who's a six-year-old girl who was
killed by the Israeli military and
they've remained inside that building
since then what we've been seeing is
that many the people that you can see
right here there are students that have
shown outside to show their support
they're not being allowed inside the
campus the campus is on complete
lockdown right now the only essential
Personnel are allowed inside or those
who live in there the students are
saying that they're under siege that
they're not they're being isolated by
the university trying to force them to
leave the campus they're saying that
they're not going to do that we've been
seeing people taking them food and other
things for for them to remain in there
but what we're seeing that's changing
right now is we're seeing lots of and
lots of police presence law enforcement
that is coming this way they have
completely sealed about two blocks away
from where we are right now it's
impossible to leave this area the same
thing is happening on Broadway Avenue
this is right across the campus and on
the other side we've been in touch with
some of the students they believe that
their arrest is imminent we cannot
confirm this is going to happen we do
not know whether police is going to
inside what we do know is that
apparently the police is waiting for
Columbia University to invite them but
when this happened back in on April 17th
and 18th over 100 students were arrested
and until now they have been trying to
prevent that something like this happens
again but because of the number of
police officers that we're seeing notor
around this area but on the other side
of the campus many believe that
something could happen throughout the
night today thank you so much for that
today's AO keeping a very close eye on
that moving story for us from Columbia
University now most of the protesters
arrested on charges of trespassing at
University of Texas in Austin on Monday
are still in jail Heidi Joe Castro has
more there has been a slow trickle of
the protesters that are being released
according to the University of Texas
Austin Administration 79 people were
arrested arrested for Monday's protests
and they have been charged with uh we're
seeing a lot of criminal trespassing as
the major charge here and now more than
24 hours later still the vast majority
remain inside the jail that's behind me
and that's despite the calls that you're
hearing behind me of not only free
Palestine but free those protesters
these are UT students some faculty
member and other members of the Austin
Community that held a vigil overnight
waiting for every last one of those
arrested to be released and joining us
is a guest who is an attorney has been
helping some of those that have been
detained this is rela sadiki thanks for
joining us tell me about the charges
that these individuals are facing and
some of the criticism that you know this
started out as a peaceful protest so are
these charges valid I think it's
important to note miss castra these
continue to be peaceful protests they
started as peaceful protests and that
never changed and these students are
protesting and they're exercising a
right constitutionally guaranteed to
them at a public university none of them
broke any laws um the uh University of
Texas Police Department threatened them
to with a Criminal Trespass warning if
they refuse to disperse which is
something they shouldn't have been asked
to do in the first place so in in short
to answer your question no I don't think
these charges are valid how many have
been released to your knowledge know and
what is what is it that they are going
to experience now so um just having been
here a couple of hours today um it seems
like only a handful probably no more
than five or six if I had to guess have
been released um obviously these
students have been here for a very long
time and I'm sure I it goes without
saying being in being in a holding cell
being in County lockup is traumatizing
and experience enough um for kids this
young now this is the second wave of
arrest a week ago there was another
police uh action against protesters who
were peaceful as you said and it ended
up that those people all had their
charges dropped because there was
insufficient evidence against them
that's what the County Attorney herself
said yeah do you see some of those
similar legal issues with the charges
against these newly arrested protesters
absolutely and you know aside from the
fact that whatever notice the county
claims they gave these students to
disperse before they were arrested they
have been they have waffled back and
forth between what kind of threats they
wanted to issue to students they've sent
inconsistent emails to students and to
faculty and to staff um they've at one
point claimed that they would be
charging them with criminal trespass at
another they claimed that they would be
charging with them obstruction um and so
that in that in and of itself I think is
enough of a notice issue um that these
student these students wouldn't have
otherwise known that anything that they
were doing was illegal and and I and I
think that nobody in their position
would have thought that what they were
doing was illegal especially as at a
public university well we appreciate
your expertise as an attorney but also
interested in your reaction just as a
human seeing the images of the protest
from yesterday students being maced
students being taken down so violently
what was your response to seeing that
I'm absolutely disgusted um but so
overwhelmingly proud of all these kids I
honestly my heart explodes every time I
turn the TV on every time I come down
here to the jail I'm so incredibly proud
of of them I can't believe their own
government is treating them like this um
and you know what they're undeterred I
when I was in school I would never have
been brave enough to do this and so
every time I meet with one in the jail
or I come across one when I'm when I'm
here at outside the jail I let them know
how proud of them they are and I hope
that they never stop and I hope that
they also know there's always going to
be an attorney that will come and get
you and you will not be lost or
forgotten in there thank you R welcome
she and other attorneys have actually
offered their time for free every single
one of these protesters I'm told is
receiving free legal representation that
might help them through this Criminal
Justice System but then of course
they're also facing what could be
punishment coming from the UT
Administration I asked specifically what
will happen to these students because
there were some threats of suspension I
was told that because this is exam week
that these students had to be left in
peace not knowing what will happen to
them in the
future make sure to subscribe to our our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer